# <h1 align="center">Basic Image Processing Concepts and Terminologies


## **Application of Image Processing**

- **Image processing** is used in diagnostic machines such as Medical Application, Industrial Application, Consumer Electronics, Military Application, Security Application. 
- What is an **Image**? Discrete representation of data possessing obth spatial (layout) and intensity (color) information. 
- **Digital image** is a representation of a two-dimensional image using a finite number of points usually called picture elements or **pixels**.


## **Understanding Image Color and Resolution**

- **Image Color**: Black/White, Greyscale, RGB, HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value) - Intensity
- **Image resolution and Quantization**: 
  - Satial resolution: **C x R** e.g. 640 x 480, 800 x 600
  - Temporal resolution: e.g. 25 fps
  - Bit resolution: e.g. 24 bit

## **Understanding Image Formats and Data Types**

***Lossless compression** is a class of data compression algorithms that allows the original data to be perfectly reconstructed from the compressed data* 

*In **lossy compression**, the data in a file is removed and not restored to its original form after decompression.*
- **Image Forrmats**
  - **JPEG** (Joint Photographic Experts Group) Lossy compression 
  - **GIF** (Graphics Interchange Format) Lossless compression Limited to 8-bits color 
  - **BMP** (Bit Map Picture) Basic format Lossless compression
  - **PNG** (Portable Network Graphics) Lossless compression
  - **TIFF** (Tagged Image File Format) Very flexible Compression 
- **Image Data Types**
  - **Binary Image**: 2D array value 0 or 1
  - **Intensitty or greyscale**: 2D array numerical value 0-255 
  - **RGB or true-color Image**
  - **Floating - Point Image**: Floating-point images offer the greatest accuracy and dynamic range, at the expense of substantially greater memory requirement and processing time
  
## **The Bitmap Format**
- The bitmap image has 54 bytes image header, 1024 bytes color table and some image data.
- If we want to know the width of the bitmap image, we can just access offset number 18. If we want to know the height, we can access offset 22.
- So we shall be referring to these offsets during our coding session to access and manipulate our bitmap images.
- We need just the offset 18 which which gives us the image width, offset 22 which gives us the image height and offset twenty eight which gives us the bits per pixel, which is also known as the bit depth. If the bit depth is less than or equal to 8, this means that the bitmap contains a color table. The colour table is basically a block of bytes listing the colors used in the image.
- So in conclusion, to get access to the complete image information, we need to read fifty four bytes image header. The thousand and twenty four bytes colour table and then finally read the pixel information.

   


